To run this Retry & Replay Framework locally for development, follow these general steps. The specifics might vary slightly depending on the chosen technologies and your operating system.

Prerequisites:

Java Development Kit (JDK): Ensure you have a compatible Java version installed (e.g., Java 11 or later). You can check your version by running java -version in your terminal or command prompt.
Maven: This project uses Maven for build automation and dependency management. Download and install Maven from https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi. Verify your installation by running mvn -v.
Git: You'll need Git to clone the project repository. Install it from https://git-scm.com/downloads.
An IDE (Optional but Recommended): IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or VS Code with Java extensions can greatly enhance your development experience.
Docker (Optional, for Kafka and Database): If you plan to use Kafka for event-driven retries or a specific database, Docker can simplify the setup of these dependencies. Install Docker from https://www.docker.com/get-started/.
Email Server (for testing notifications): You'll need access to an SMTP server for testing email notifications. You can use a real email server or a tool like Mailtrap (https://mailtrap.io/) for development.
Steps:

 Clone the Repository:
Open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the project. 1  Then, run:   
1.
github.com
github.com

Bash

git clone <your_project_repository_link>
cd retry-replay-framework
Replace <your_project_repository_link> with the actual link to your project's Git repository.

Build the Project:
Navigate to the root directory of the cloned project (retry-replay-framework) and run the Maven build command:

Bash

mvn clean install
This command will download all the necessary dependencies, compile the Java code, run unit and integration tests, and package the application.

Set up Dependencies (if applicable):

Database:

Embedded Database (e.g., H2): If you've configured Spring Boot to use an embedded database for development, it will likely be set up automatically. You might need to check the application.properties or application.yml file for its configuration.
External Database (e.g., PostgreSQL, MySQL):
Install the database on your local machine.
Create a database schema for the application (if not automatically created by Spring Boot).
Update the database connection details in your application.properties or application.yml file (e.g., URL, username, password).
Kafka (if implemented):

Using Docker (Recommended): You can use Docker Compose to set up a Kafka broker and potentially Zookeeper. Create a docker-compose.yml file (or use one provided in the repository) with the necessary configurations and run:
Bash

docker-compose up -d
Local Installation: If you have Kafka installed locally, ensure the Kafka server and Zookeeper are running.
Update the Kafka broker details in your application.properties or application.yml file (e.g., spring.kafka.bootstrap-servers).
Email Server:

If you're using a real SMTP server, configure its details in your application.properties or application.yml (e.g., spring.mail.host, spring.mail.port, spring.mail.username, spring.mail.password).
If you're using Mailtrap, sign up for an account and use the provided SMTP credentials in your configuration file.
Configure the Application:
Review the src/main/resources/application.properties or src/main/resources/application.yml file. This file contains various configuration settings for the Spring Boot application, including:

Server port (server.port).
Database connection details (if using an external database).
Kafka broker addresses (if using Kafka).
Email server details.
Quartz scheduler properties.
Retry and replay framework specific configurations (e.g., default retry intervals, maximum attempts).
Logging levels.
Security settings.
Adjust these settings according to your local environment. You might need to create a separate configuration file (e.g., application-dev.properties or application-local.yml) for your development environment and activate it using the spring.profiles.active property.

Run the Application:
There are several ways to run the Spring Boot application:

From your IDE: Most IDEs (IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, VS Code) allow you to run the main application class (RetryReplayApplication.java) directly. Right-click on the class and select "Run" or "Debug."

Using Maven: Navigate to the project root directory in your terminal and run:

Bash

mvn spring-boot:run
The application should start, and you should see logs indicating the startup process. By default, the web UI will likely be accessible at http://localhost:8080 (or a different port if configured).

Access the Web UI:
Open your web browser and navigate to the URL where the application is running (e.g., http://localhost:8080). You should see the login page of the Retry & Replay Framework UI.

Testing and Development:
You can now interact with the UI to:

Monitor transaction statuses (initially, there might not be any transactions).
(If configured) Trigger test failures to observe the retry mechanism in action.
Manually select and replay transactions (once failures occur and are recorded).
Observe logs and email notifications (if configured correctly).
Further Development:

Make changes to the Java code in the src/main/java directory.
Modify UI files in the src/main/resources/static and src/main/resources/templates directories.
After making changes, you might need to rebuild the project using Maven (mvn clean install) or, if your IDE supports it, enable hot reloading for faster iteration.
Write unit and integration tests in the src/test/java directory to ensure the correctness of your changes. You can run these tests from your IDE or using the Maven command mvn test.
By following these steps, you should be able to set up and run the Retry & Replay Framework locally for development and testing. Remember to consult the project's README.md and any specific developer guides in the docs/ directory for more detailed instructions or project-specific setup requirements.
